# Active Indexing Service

Active Indexing Service is a paid feature. It allows users to add their npub to the list, 
so the indexer is actively looking for their content on their declared relays. 

The indexer by default only indexes content from a small set of public relays and is not actively searching for content from all users.

Because Nostr is decentralized, this is a way to ensure that content from users who subscribe to this service is more reliably 
indexed and available for search and retrieval within DN.

The indexer is aiming to become a premium long-form aggregator for Nostr content, and this service is part of that vision.

## How it works

When a user subscribes to the Active Indexing Service, their npub is awarded the role 'ROLE_ACTIVE_INDEXING'.
This role signals the indexer to prioritize fetching and indexing content from the user's declared relays.

Subscription is required, because this is an active process that consumes additional resources on the indexer side.
Subscription is paid in advance via a zap invoice generated by DN. Available tiers: 1k sats/month or 10k sats/year.

Once subscribed, users 10002 kind relay list will be used to determine which relays to actively fetch content from.
If no relay list is found, you will be prompted to list a relay that has it, or to add relays to your indexer-specific relay list.
If you do not provide any relays, the indexer will default to its own public relay list.

The indexer will periodically check the declared relays for new content from the subscribed npub and index it accordingly.
By default, we have minimal requirements for the articles. Actively indexed npubs will be exempt from the QA gates we use in the indexer before indexing content.

Users also get access to a dashboard where they can monitor the indexing status of their content, view statistics, and manage their subscription.

